Dear Fellow Champion, I would really appreciate having your response to the outcome of my quest for a 
more effective way of education. “The Champion Code Manifesto: Knowledge creating conversations 
being all-round genius” is attached. “Being All-round Genius” is below. With gratitude, Arthur


The Champion CODE MANIFESTO: Being All-round Genius
The experiences focus on the enduring conflict between being marginalised and being a champion. People engage the conflict in their daily lives. Every person has coded stories to tell of being a champion and all-round genius. This is my story: born May 7, 1944 in New York City. My parents are artists. They call me “Champ”. Home is Greenwich Village then the Roslyn and Manhasset suburbs. We experience the everyday world, the Arts, faith and the Unknown. We share knowledge creating conversation champion codes (K4C). Later, I live and work for 25 years on Manhattan’s Lower East Side, fountainhead of American culture and K4C. I immigrate to a farm in Quebec, Canada. I engage K4C with English and French Canadians reconciling 200 years of conflict. I immigrate to London, England. My Grandfather Arthur embarks from England to NYC in 1901. In the USA, Arthur utilises K4C to successfully champion a cure for blindness in new-born babies. I immigrate to rural France, ancestral home of my Mother. Instead of UK and USA ethnic conflicts, I experience French Constitutional and societal K4C commitments to the assumption that all French citizens have a willingness to live together. I reside in London from 1990. I live in unconventional, mixed income, multi-cultural, interfaith K4C communities. I am Principal Consultant, Creative Emerging Systems 57 years ongoing. I develop K4C projects, artworks and quests in progress in business, education, government, the arts, agriculture, sports, social services and religion. I amalgamate a portfolio of K4C careers and occupations including being a New York State Notary Public. K4C Research 18 years ongoing: “Knowledge Creating Conversations”, Doctoral Centre UCL Institute of Education ranked first worldwide in education, University College London ranked first in UK. Present K4C at conferences and events worldwide. I develop a video. K4C London Borough of Hounslow: complete three one week training programmes for K4C educators in community-based settings: Learning, Health and Falls Champions; develop “Falls” video; I create the first community social and physical wellbeing project for older people in residential care; I join in developing the first Wellbeing Centre serving the local community at a local Gurdwara. K4C Research 3 years: “Community Psychology: A Study of Human Behaviour in Ecological, Cultural, Socio-political and Historical Contexts”, Graduate School of Arts and Science, University Fellowship; attend the Film School and Real Estate Institute: New York University. K4C action: I inspire and coordinate first citywide campaign for NYC Mental Health Services, budget increase 10%. MS Urban Affairs, Hunter College, City University of New York, community-based, action research, K4C Master’s Thesis: “First Lower Income Tenants Cooperative”. BA Psychology, Honours, City College, CUNY, K4C Honours Thesis: “First Community Controlled Mental Health Centre”. City College is called the “working class and poor man’s Harvard”. City College K4C shape American higher education culture: first with 12 Nobel Laureates; first free public higher education institution 1847; first student government 1867; first integrated national fraternity 1899; first degree granting evening program 1907; first student general strike of higher learning achieves dormitory racial integration 1949; I join the first students’ campus shutdown; we achieve affirmative action, remedial tuition and open admissions for all NYC High School graduates; conceive Creative Alternative Ticket CAT; win the Student Government election 1969. K4C NYC: I link the first community organizer K4C conferences Hunter College School of Social Work, Baruch Business School course on business executive K4C, Art Students League tutorials nurturing K4C and New School for Social Research K4C courses led by champions in every field. National Honour Society graduate, Manhasset NY Public Schools, community elected governing body, financed and operated: offer all students K4C for mastering their life. My most challenging K4C experience learning Punjabi language and culture age 74. My family includes Christians, Jews and Sikhs from Europe, America and India. We are among 7.6 billion plus K4C cosmic companions globally. 

Telling our K4C life stories establishes and enables our knowledge creating conversations being all-round genius                             © 2018 Arthur Brogden Male Doctoral Centre UCL IOE 16.08.18.711
