The Champion CODE MANIFESTO: Telling Personhood Stories


The Champion CODE MANIFESTO: Telling Personhood Stories

Self: Everybody tells and listens to stories. Personhood stories are about the self failing and succeeding in sagas and daily life. Telling personhood stories is important for two reasons: (1) Champions transition humankind through the conflict stages of development to the wellbeing summit. (2) Life stories establish and enable knowledge creating conversation champion codes (K4C). K4C personhood stories reflect on people, the Arts, faith and the Unknown; on conceptions, growth, death and return to dust.  K4C assess self-evident, innate, evolving, empirical knowledge creating conversations with self, others, nature and the Unknown. K4C rescue champions who are captive to societal syndromes.

Others: The K4C Principle is you begin with an individual who is basically a champion. Those individuals with spirit, like Martin Luther, Thomas Paine and Malcolm X, end up as champions being all-round genius incrementally transforming events or dead. Those whose spirit is broken end up as the others, captive to societal syndromes. All participants in academe are dualities, champions and the others, marginalised respondents to authority. Dualistic learning is preconceived and suppressed by ideological agendas. The outcome is ongoing conflict between champions’ personal, academic concerns and the others’ programmes that constrain what participants’ can and cannot do if they want to succeed. 
   
Nature: I imagine myself fluttering, diving, swooping and spiralling upward, side to side, then dramatically downward and upward again. I am witnessing the butterfly’s spontaneous, creative and difficult to mimic movements flying in our garden. The butterfly lands on a flower. It pauses for moments, a minute. It is peripatetic. What is it learning and teaching me? We are in a K4C knowledge creating conversation. They know what they are doing. Scientists once believed butterflies’ movements served no particular purpose. Now, we know butterflies fly in meaningful patterns. I am still. My body shifts slightly. I describe their activities in terms of my limitations. I wonder about their champion codes in this place. 

Unknown: Faith establishes a relationship to The Unknown that exists in education and in all religions. Prayer, meditation and chanting open the mind to finding solutions, correspondence and flow in the everyday world. Education, religion and faith in the Unknown are connected through the great teachers of the past and present including Confucius, Krishna, Buddha, Jesus, Mohammed and Nanak. People are committed to praising iconic figures like Mandela and pursuing the American dream, consumerism, sporting events, popular music, films and politics. Everybody expresses praise in ways similar to that found in religion. Education and religion both require faith in the Unknown to flourish. K4C interfaces the gaps. 

Research: Fusing action research, design science, ethnography, humanistic pedagogy and grounded theory, K4C breaks new ground in diverse research environments. K4C successively approximates new understandings. The research develops warranted exchanges reconciling arguments, securing agreements. K4C friendship, colleagueship, citizenship, entrepreneurship and custodianship resolve champions’ relationships to authority and society. Hypothesis: K4C synthesises new and expected forms of education experience to produce subsequent frames and framings of time, space and form one nested within the other. Research question: why do champions initiate K4C inquiries to conceptualise education entanglements?  

Education: Activating mostly untried, suppressed personhood, K4C engages champions in the competencies they need to independently contribute to knowledge. K4C coalesce personal, communal and societal power, beliefs and demonstrations of what is known. Champions master their code to craft insights into quests for originality. Education is a stage where champions achieve peak performance. Champions engage education to discover the Unknown. Imagining perfection, they invent what they are going to do next. After creating it, they attest to what they have done while continuing to experiment in the present. K4C transforms episodic, evidentiary events into learning relativity and intergradient education.
 
Literature: Anticipating authoritative, theoretical, experimental, methodological antecedents in the literature, K4C reviews the work of Shaftesbury ( Renaissance), Aurobindo (education), Dowling (academe), Wittgenstein (personhood), Zeldin (conversation), Gandhi (economics), Arendt (politics), Chomsky (change), Cameron (creativity), Campbell (research), Comfort (lifestyles), Csikszentmihalyi (flow), Freire (collaboration), Toynbee (history) and Mezirow (transformation) among others. K4C generates changing consciousness, inclusion, integrity, wonder, curiosity, joy and academic insights. Epistemological praxis transforms ontological experience. Creativity balances chaos and order to achieve homeostasis and understanding.
 
Reality: K4C inquires how academe compartmentalises learning. K4C supports and opens champions’ research journeys. In the theatrical, trans-formative, real world, being all-round genius is required to prosper. The error is to treat dogma, doctrines and bias as the real thing: over investing in hierarchic, competitive learning environments because that is what is happening in academe. Champions enlighten what they are being told and free what they tell themselves. Nurturing a sense of infinite probabilities, champions access agency, authority and autonomy. Champions initiate creative emerging systems. Champions organise colleague awareness clusters and management teams consulting with colleagues throughout their lives.

History: K4C challenges controlling static systems and colonial modes. Based on charters, crusades, colonialism, corporations, capitalism, consumerism, corruption and conflicts, the societal means proliferate in Europe and worldwide for 500 years. Lower, middle and upper echelon cultural elites continue to secure and increase their wealth today. People inhabit actual kingdoms and rigorously defend them; others experience exploitation and death. An estimated 266,949 million people have died from wars and famines; many millions more in poverty, ruin and illness. The systems and modes dominate academe, workplace and society. Equalities and rights are mostly ignored in education. The Magna Carta barely exists in law. 

Future: K4C’s aim is to revise the context for experiencing learning relativity: the fluctuating boundaries of knowledge creating conversations. From inertia and ennui to movement, champions are polymaths who act on what they know. Polysemy addresses the vastness of the unknown using the variety of possible meanings of words and phrases to produce still, silent calm. Champions communicate miraculously, intuitively, electronically, physically and metaphysically in cyberspace and by quantum means. They transition humankind from shock, awe and disbelief to enlightenment. Utilising improvisation, audience participation and performance art, champions learning trajectories constitute a manifesto.

Affirmations: K4C provides a way forward for lower, middle and upper echelon elites to end their commitment to controlling static systems, colonial modes and corrupt pre-emptive politics. Civilisations fail because parasitic cultural elites prey on the general public. Another reason is increasing levels of violence. A third is inadequate societal responses to calamitous problems. Ottomans, Indians, Mongols, Persians, Africans, Greeks, Romans, Moors, Arabs, Egyptians, Incans, Aztecs, Sikhs, Chinese and Sumerians offer us history lessons we have yet to learn. For civilisations to be sustainable, champions support and protect every citizen. In order to consider ourselves civilised, we must benevolently custodian one in all, all in one. 

Telling personhood stories, I begin with the Punjabi word simran which until ten weeks ago held little meaning for me. The word describes an activity which requires me to get out of … 

© 2018 Arthur Brogden Male                           
